[Music]
hello everyone today we are going to
talk about acing challenges uh in EF
core when we have large data set and
we're going to just going through some
uh different diagrams to understand what
is the problem
exactly uh my name is
sad uh I'm Microsoft MVP currently
working as a senior software engineer at
leads Building Society usually I create
some content on my personal blog Linked
In YouTube so if you would like you can
check my uh profile uh as
well so here is the agenda for today we
are uh going to start with explaining
the scenario uh what is exactly
happening uh in the async apis uh in EF
cor also after that we are trying to uh
see The Benchmark and the result to just
get uh more idea what's going on and
after uh we go through the what is the
issue and where it comes from
exactly and for sure we're going to talk
about the the solutions and after
applying those solution we're going to
PR on The Benchmark again and see the
updated number numbers and we're going
to have one uh conclusion at the
end so let's go a right to the point in
eor async corporation is much slower
than sync Corporation when we are
dealing with the large data set apart
from that okay everywhere everyone
saying that AC Corporation is the best
practice and everywhere we need to use
it that's correct but not always in such
a this kind of scenarios that we got we
are going to talk about AC cooperation
is not that good right and uh so what is
the reason to have the uh large data set
when we are saying that okay uh what is
that size that we are talking about is
actually when we have a Vare Max or V
binary Max in our data based as a column
type we have we may have um a size big
ex size when we are trying to retrieve
the data from database and of course in
any case maybe we going to return I
don't know Millions rows from database
so obviously we're going to have more
size in case of the megabyte or more but
here I'm going to just focus on the uh
Vare Max and see what's uh going to
happen so what is the use cases when we
are using the V care Max or V binary Max
some properties that we don't know about
the
length maybe we have a description
property in for example user profile but
as a developer I don't know user how
much uh text gonna put on this
description so I just said let it be uh
V Max and then let user free to put
everything right and then the storing
file is another interesting scenario
that I don't like it to be honest for
the serving file usually we are using
kind of OB cidian or other uh Azure blob
storage or something like that but still
there is some scenarios that maybe team
decide to um assorting files into the
database as a v binary Max or maybe
convert the file to the base 64 and then
save it as a string um but I mean maybe
there is some use cases for having more
security over the when user wants to
download the file you you you're saying
that okay okay I can authorize fully the
the user and everything is secure but um
for my opinion it's not a good
idea uh but let let's go for the The
Benchmark and U seeing the result so
here is the the entities that I'm going
to uh show The Benchmark on them I
simply just created two tables uh with
two uh properties IDE as a primary key
takes as a a string which is will be the
worker Max so if we we just uh run the
migration with the EF core because we
didn't put any constraint on the text it
will select the nare max this is the
default behavior for the EF core so
nothing special here and now let's uh I
I want to show the The Benchmark code as
well what I'm talking about so here is
the Benchmark using
benchmark.pl everything on my tables and
then just insert only one record right I
have four methods as a for running the
Benchmark one is the async API first
default only top one and then using the
sync one nothing special I just wanted
to keep it very simple to run the
Benchmark and here in DB context as well
I just have two DB sets and then setting
connection string like this uh one
because I want to use it for uh one of
the solution and also I have the uh
Benchmark for the postgress as well just
to make a comparison between um SQL
server and the post for just getting
better idea about the The Benchmark
result everything is the same entities
tables The Benchmark code all the same
just different database provider okay so
for sake of the time I don't want to run
the Benchmark because it's uh taking
time but I already have the result here
and we are going to talk on
uh those
numbers okay this is the EF core the
latest version that Tuesday
released and uh here is the result for
theq Server which is very surprising as
you can you can see that acing operation
um first or default acing actually is
taking more than one second where the
sync operation is only taking
25 milliseconds means it is around sync
one 50 times faster than a sync one and
more importantly this is the memory
allocation which I uh care more about it
okay performance the speed of the query
is matter but the memory allocation here
is more important for us as a backend
developer it is going to using lots of
memory lots of I don't know cost in your
cloud provider so the memory allocation
as you can see is much more for the
async one but let's see the post post is
totally normal actually when we are
checking the numbers even allocation
part is the same and uh the the
performance the spe of the query async
one is slightly different which making
sense because when you are using the
asyn uh apis by default you are putting
a little more uh overhead on your run
time for checking the lots of events
State machine everything so that makes
sense and we are accepting that uh
slightly changes for the using async but
seems the the problem is only in the SQL
Server so furthermore we just going
through the SQL server and find out what
is the the problem
exactly so let's ask this question is it
really about the EF core that we had
those Benchmark and for the squ server
provider can be the cprit efcore
we will see the exact point of the
problem so for understanding the the big
picture of this issue first of all we
need to understand how EF core exactly
executes a query right because we need
to get this idea how uh what is going on
so when we have this um first or default
a sync and the first step is link query
translator this is a very high level
overview of the different steps and then
after it will use the database provider
to translate that c code to the
appropriate
database which in our case is skq server
will translate to this tsql very simple
one and then after we're going to run
this query getting result from database
then after that uh EF core will create
some classes relation fix up in case of
any includes and then just simply
returning to the color one right so if
we see this um steps here it seems we
need to focus more on the database
provider for the SQL Server we are using
disnet package Entity framework
core. server which is responsible based
on your database
uh creating the
appropriate uh command query actually
the database query so here because we
are using the SQL Server it will
generate this csql based on the the link
one right but who is responsible for
executing this query against our
database here is the nuget package
microsoft. dat. sko client which is
separated nugget package also separate
repository for dealing with the SQL
Server one so what I'm going to do is I
am going to run um already run the The
Benchmark for this specific uh esol
client nugget package but the question
is how would I know which version of
this uh ESO client package is using in
the uh esql server uh package so I'm
going to introduce this very interesting
new feature in net 9 for net net y so if
I go to my command line here I am
already in the school server provider
project so simply if I just type net
nety um microsoft. dat. client the
package that I'm looking for and then if
I run this we can see in the uh SQL
Server nuget package page this uh client
School client internally is using and
the version is
516 so I'm going to run this uh
Benchmark for this specific um version
of the Skool client so let's go back to
our
presentation so here is the the result
and again
surprising it seems that the number are
the same with the F core for the Skool
client for exact same tables same schema
everything right so what we understand
here what it means it means actually the
problem is happening in the school Cent
nugget package not in the the EF core
itself so we're gonna go more deep in
this ESO
client so here is the the open
um issue in the school client repository
which she created around four years
ago that pointing okay for large data
asynchronous uh API is much slower than
sync one so this is a very very nice
thread uh you can go and read all of the
comments here highly recommended I
already learned a lot from the the
comments that uh
Community replying on this um issue but
what I'm going to do here is just going
to understand what exactly happening for
this school client and then how to fix
that okay so as we saw in the previous
slide here this uh kind of um the
application side all the steps happening
in the application side are this uh
steps and then at some point we're going
to go out of our application and then
executing the query for uh our database
and then getting the result right so we
need to understand what is going on here
exactly in this step so after running
the query esql server start sending back
our um response chunk by chunk but here
we need to know what protocol is using
for uh moving and sending this
packets well actually SQL Server is
using TDS protocol to uh exchange the
packets tabular data stream which is
specifically for This Server only so
next slide we're going to just um see
what is going on in this TDS because
this is very
important TDS was originally designed
and developed by sbase company and after
that Microsoft bought it and owned that
um company which was actually uh was the
creator of the sko
server and Microsoft keep using the TDS
as a protocol for um sending and uh
communicating between client and uh
server
the each um default size for the TDS
package is 8
kiloby so for example if we have 5
megabyte of the the response for sending
back to the client es server has to send
around um 640 TDS message to the client
you can see how much frequently between
the um server and client is is happening
this is the TDS message format so here
the server first start will with the
sending the column metadata saying that
hey client I'm going to send this
columns as a data to you prepare
yourself and then start sending the row
data one by one and uh until all of the
those row data is done and then send the
done data right
and um here each of this row data is 8
kilobyte it doesn't mean it's whole row
depends on your row size maybe it's 5
megabytes and then the scool server has
to send lots of this row data until it's
done so for this reason everyone that
wants to deal with the school server
which is here is school client nuget
package they need to have uh TDS parer
then uh which is responsible actually
for the getting those um messages
aggregate all of them parsing them and
then uh prepare everything for the upper
layer and saying that okay this row is
done and then you can use it right so
but this is TS Parts there is um the
actually our critical point because
the problem exactly happening in this uh
TDS
par the way that TDs parer is
implemented in the ESL client nugget
package for acing API is causing much
more memory
allocation and consequently we're going
to have a slower query so it seems I
already put the um the GitHub link for
in the resources you you can go and see
the code in the this
repository very interesting to uh review
the code uh but here when we have it
seems when for each of those uh packet
TDS packet that is coming to the uh the
application part they are resetting the
the copy of data because the sync one it
needs to wait and then getting all the
uh data but async is actually using
those kind of uh task cancellation
Source waiting uh checking if there is
more packages so every time they are
actually resetting the uh like array of
binary copy this binary to this one this
array to this one so it causes much more
memory allocation and guess what when we
have this kind of copy paste who is come
to the picture garbage collection it
needs to run very frequently and causes
maybe at run time to have a slower query
right so this is the the main issue in
the school client and after that we're
gon to
check what we can do about it as we know
that the issue is already open it means
it's not not fixed um totally and then
here I'm not going to just fix that
problem but because the in the the
thread as well they mentioned it taking
years to fix that but we are just going
to improve uh our code by doing some
tricks
right okay so the first one the simple
one actually is using sync over async
method when we say Okay um sync method
is 50 times faster than a sync why not
just using sync but as we know we need
to be careful about using sync uh apis
making your application not scalable
actually and um so if we have very
specific table one table for example two
table in our uh database that we know
it's going to taking more data and has a
an Max with lots of uh megabytes so
we're going to put sub comment okay I am
going to use this sync method because of
this issue right
perfect another one if you are using the
SQL client directly we can actually
change the command behavior and then set
it to the um sequential axis what sequen
access does here is actually streaming
the data as they come from the scho
server instead of waiting for getting
entire uh row and loading entire row
into the memory which is the default
Behavior actually it will stream the
data as they come to the upper layer and
then it causes much less um memory
allocation and then better performance
we cannot use the sequential AIS in EF
core because by default is using the in
Entity framework when trying to uh run
the query using the default Behavior but
is already in process for a long time
and you can check the GitHub issue as
well another one is updating the Skol
package to the latest version and so
pressing the internal one I already
asked this question in the
um E4
repository because here uh currently in
the SCH server efcore 9 we are using
516 as the version for SQ client but
it's not the latest one the latest one
is a
522 so the the reason that they are
using the five um. 1.6
is that is the LTS version for theol
client because of this kind of issues
that every time EF core release that um
EF that SQL client obsolete or has some
problem so they are frequently needs to
uh release another EF core version so
they decided to just using the
um uh the latest uh
the LTS version sorry so but here we can
use this EF um the updated version
because we know that the 522 version has
a signifant significant uh Improvement
for the specific issues that we are
talking about I already put the uh the
URL uh for this pool request you can go
and check the code very interesting uh
they made very good uh Improvement on
this issue so after that if we just run
the net y again we can see the internal
package using the latest one we're going
to run the The Benchmark and seeing the
result after applying these
changes and as a last one we know that
um the default package here uh the
default packet size for the TDs is 8
kilobytes so very simple uh question is
why not just increasing the packet size
which is a good one we can increase the
packet size and telling a school server
to sending a bigger package to just uh
preventing lots of frequency for sending
the TDS packets the maximum allot value
is 32 kiloby right so when we um trying
to use the connection string we can just
saying that packet size this the bytes
for um as a packet size and this is the
maximum value if you set it more you
will get exception that you're not
allowed it to uh set more than 32
kilobyte and um if we want to run the
Benchmark based on this uh um
suggested Solutions I'm not going to go
to The Benchmark code this is the the
the same code but just doing these
tricks so here is the last um Benchmark
that we did for the SQ server with these
numbers and by only updating SQL client
5 to2 we are getting around nine times
faster in case of performance which
doesn't matter that one that you know
that much but very importantly the
allocation part you can see how much is
different for the allocation part if you
check the pull request for the SQL
client it is not that much changes or
refactoring the code but it's just
simply you need to understand the way
that the TDS package coming to your
application and then trying to make it
effective for uh aggregating the
packages and in case of using the latest
school client and also uh increasing the
packet size we're going to get 17 faster
uh as a the result the allocated part is
the same because still we are getting
the same amount of the data from
database but the performance is better
depends on your scenario which uh um
case is matter for you if you're caring
about the speed you can go for this
solution so here
we understand what is the issue with the
large data set in EF core where is it
and how to fix it
partially keep an eye I on the on the
the GitHub issue update your packages as
they release and care about the internal
packages as well not only as we saw okay
this is EF core but internally is using
the older uh LTS version for the Skol
client always set the max um value uh
Max L for the string property if
possible I would suggest to set a global
Max L for all the strings in your all
tables or entities it is possible
possible by using the convention in the
DB context um you can just saying that
for all the strings for example put 200
500 as a Max Lin uh if I for or forget
for um for example setting constraint on
a string it will take the default one
and Global constraint so another Point
here is if you have an work uh or van
binary Marx in your database then it
could be a secure issue as well for
example I have a description for the the
user profile for my user for example I
log in and putting 100 megabyte text in
my description uh for and then save it
right you don't know because you already
set the envir Car Max in your table and
then after if I just call in my user
profile for sure your um back end will
get out of memory exception and will be
crashed right as a last Point here EF
core is just an
omm cannot do magic for you you have to
understand and learning about underlying
database based on your situation which
database you are using with ef core you
have to uh go and learn that in this
kind of tricks and understand the issues
following the uh community and the gthp
uh issues so that's it for me this is
the uh resources that I mentioned during
the
presentation and thank you so much